[Music]
now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants
to Solomon because he heard that they
had anointed him King in place of his
father for Hiram had always loved David
then Solomon center Hiram you know how
my father David could not build a house
for the name of the Lord his God because
of the walls which were fought against
him on every side until the Lord put his
foes under the soles of his feet but now
the Lord my God has given me rest on
every side there is neither adversary
nor evil occurrence and behold I propose
to build a house for the name of the
Lord my God as the Lord spoke to my
father David saying your son whom I will
set on your throne in your place he
shall build the house for my name
now therefore command that they cut down
Cedars for me from Lebanon and my
servants will be with your servants and
I will pay you wages for your servants
according to whatever you say for you
know there is none among us who has
skill to cut timber like the sidonians
[Applause]
so it was when Hiram heard the words of
Solomon that he rejoiced greatly and
said blessed be the Lord this day for he
has given gave it a wise son over this
great people
then Hyrum sent to Solomon I have
considered the message which you sent me
and I will do all you desire concerning
the cedar and Cypress logs my servants
shall bring them down from Lebanon to
the sea I will float them in rafts by
sea to the place you indicate to me and
will have them broken apart there then
you can take them away and you shall
fulfill my desire by giving food for my
household
then Hyrum gave Solomon cedar and
Cypress logs according to all his desire
and Solomon gave Hyrum 20,000 cause of
wheat as food for his household and 20
cause of pressed oil thus Solomon gave
to Hyrum year-by-year
so the Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he
had promised him and there was peace
between Hyrum and Solomon and the two of
them made a treaty together then King
Solomon raised up a labor force out of
all Israel and the labor force was
thirty thousand men and he sent them to
Lebanon ten thousand a month in shifts
they were one month in Lebanon and two
months at home
a denier was in charge of the labor
force Solomon had 70,000 who carried
burdens and 80,000 who quarried stone in
the mountains
besides 3,300 from the chiefs of
solomon's deputies who supervise the
people who labored in the work and the
king commanded them to quarry large
stones costly stones and Hulme stones to
lay the foundation of the temple so
Solomon's builders Hiram's builders and
the giba lights quarried them and they
prepared timber and stones to build the
temple
you